ED/09/02/01/11/021 2026.03.
Circular No.- 10/2026
All Provincial Education Secretaries
Commissioner General of Examinations
Commissioner General of Educational Publications
Director General, National Institute of Education
All Provincial Directors of Education
All Zonal Directors of Education
All Divisional Directors of Education
Heads of the National College of Education, Principals of Teachers’ Colleges
Principals of All the Schools, Assisted and Special Schools and Heads of Government-Approved
-private schools
All the Parivenadhipathi Theros
Establishing 'Collective Circles' to eradicate all types of toxic drugs, alcohol and
tobacco-related products from Educational Institutions under the state policy of
creating a 'Drug-free Country with a Joyful Tomorrow'.
The provisions of this circular shall be prevailed beyond the Circular No. 35/2023 dated
10.10.2023 issued on establishing 'School Friendly Forums' to maintain after being ensured that
premises under the Educational Institutions are totally free zones from the use, promotion, trade,
etc. of Tobacco-Related Products, Alcohol and All any other types of drugs.
02. The use of narcotics has been identified as a major social obstacle to the successful
implementation of the role of the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational
Education in achieving the national education objectives and Sustainable Development Goals.
Thereby, the aim of the issuance of this Circular in line with the 'Ratama Ekata' programme, is
that directives to all Heads of Institutions to prevent the promotion, sale and use of any drug being
used for intoxication, including narcotics, targeting school children, school communities or staff of
other educational institutions, and to be issued a ‘Country Strategy’ on the Prevention of Narcotic
Drugs, by this Ministry. It is also a specific aim related to schools, especially to transform the child
who enters society through the school system, into a child with a personality who could deny all
forms of drugs.
03. The use, sale, promotion of legal or illegal or toxic drugs, alcohol, narcotics and related
products, cigarettes and tobacco-related products, all betel nut products, dangerous drugs, over-the-
counter drugs, stimulants, harmful food supplements, artificial energy drinks that are harmful to
personal health or any substance used for intoxication, and obtaining training from the institutions
engaged in the production and sale of such substances are strictly prohibited.

04. Institutions, individuals and groups ruled by the Circular
4.1 All persons serving, studying or organizing and participating in various programmes in the
Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education and the following departments,
offices and institutional premises, teachers' houses, student hostels and canteens thereunder,
including trainers, parents, alumni, persons carrying out construction work, labourers, etc., must be
complied with the provisions of this Circular.
i. Department of Educational Publications
ii. Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka
iii. All Provincial Departments of Education
iv. All Zonal Education Offices
v. All Divisional Education Offices
vi. All Government schools
vii. All Government Approved private schools
viii. All Government Pirivenas and Educational Institutions
ix. All Assisted and special schools
x. National Institute of Education (NIE)
xi. South Asian Teacher Development Center
xii. National College of Education
xiii. Teachers' Colleges
xiv. Teacher Professional Development Centers
xv. Information Technology and Distance Learning Center
xvi. Regional English Support Centers (RESC)
4.2 The sale, promotion and use of any substance used for intoxication as mentioned in the
above Section 03 is strictly prohibited within the institutional premises, with or without
institutional identity, at any time during participation in subject activities or extracurricular
programs, in involving outside persons or institutions in institutional activities, in using
institutional property and in providing the opportunity to do as such shall also be prohibited within
the institutional premises.
 During inter-school cricket tournaments
 On educational and recreational trips/picnics
 When conducting co-curricular activities
 In all kind of activities such as camps, sports, carnivals, exhibitions and musical
performances organized by external parties, including alumni/old boys associations, on the
school premises,
 Special attention should be paid to this in any event organized by alumni /old boys
associations associations, well-wishers, and parents, whether with or without school
identity, inside or outside the school.
05. Drug prevention in the School System
5.1 Accordingly, the 'Friendly Forums' related to drug prevention referred to in my Circular No.
35/2023 dated 10.10.2023 shall hereinafter be referred to as 'Collective Circles'. Those collective
circles consist of four layers as follows. They are:

1. School-level 'school collective circles'
2. 'Zonal Collective Circles' at the education zone level
3. 'Provincial Collective Circles' at the Provincial Department of Education level
4. 'National Collective Circle' at the Ministry of Education level
5.2 School level ' School Collective Circles '
5. 2.1 Composition of the school collective circle
1. 03 Mentors - A Deputy Principal and a Teacher in Charge of Health and Physical
Education/Teacher in Charge of Counseling and Guidance (If there are no teachers for
these subjects, a teacher of any other suitable subject should be appointed.)
2. Chairman - A student leader of the Senior Student Executive Board (two co-chairmen
should be appointed in the case of mixed schools)
3. Vice President - Student Leader
4. Secretary - Student Leader
5. Deputy Secretary - Student
6. Committee Members - Student Committee Members ( 15)
Parent members ( 2)
Alumni (2)
5.2.2 The role of the school collective circle
In order to make school/educational institution premises/ zones free from the use of toxic drugs as
mentioned in paragraph 03 and to create a physical environment that ensures that there is no
victimization, to develop the ability to make informed decisions and to develop life skills relevant
to the ability to reject things that are harmful to oneself and society, and to gain their active
participation in this programme by raising awareness among the community.
5.2.3 School Collective circle related activities
Programmes aimed at raising awareness, preventing, and motivating the entire school community,
including teachers, students, alumni/old boys associations, and parents, should be organized within
the school.
For example:
1. Raising awareness through the school media circle.
2. Leadership Programme Organization (on drug prevention)
3. Conducting drug prevention education programmes for parents
4. Maintain and update display boards and notice boards
5. Conduct student mentoring programmes for target groups
6. Secondary education in all curricular and co-curricular activities implemented in schools
Paying special attention to students in Secondary Grades
5.2.4 When drug prevention programmes are implemented in schools, resources for those
programmes should be obtained only from institutions that have received written recommendations
from the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education, and actions should

be taken only in accordance with the instructions laid down by this Circular on school-based drug
prevention.
 National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol
 National Dangerous Drugs Control Board
5.3 'Regional Collective Circles' at the education zone level
5.3.1 Composition of the ' Zonal Collective Circle ' Zonal Drug Prevention Committee
 Chairman - Zonal Director of Education
 Vice-Chairman - Deputy Director of Education (School Administration)
 Secretary - Deputy/Assistant Director of the Department of Drug Prevention
 Deputy secretary - Assistant Director of Education
 Members - Divisional Educators, 03 Principals, Teachers involved in Counseling
5. 4 'Provincial Collective Circles' at the Provincial Education Department level
5.4.1 Composition of the Provincial Drug Prevention Committee of the 'Provincial Collective
Circle'
 Chief Advisor - Provincial Secretary of Education - Supervises and guides the activities
of this committee.
 Chairman - Provincial Director of Education
 Vice President - Additional Provincial Director of Education (Administration) / Provincial
Subject Director
 Secretary - Deputy Subject Directors
 Undersecretary - Zonal Directors of Education
 Members - A representative from the Police Narcotics Bureau/ A representative from
the provincial main hospital/ A representative from the National Dangerous Drugs Control
Board/ A principal from each zone and the Assistant Manager of the Provincial
Psychosocial Resource Centre
5.5 'National Collective Circles' at the line Ministaerial Level
5.5.1 Composition of the 'National Collective Circle' National Narcotics Committee
 Chief Patron - Secretary of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education
 Chairman - Additional Secretary (Co-curricular, Primary Education Development)
 Vice President - Director of Education (Concurrent subject , guidelines and advice)
 Secretary - Deputy/Assistant Director of Education , ( Co-curricular)
 Deputy secretary - Deputy/Assistant Director of Education
 Committee - All Additional Secretaries of Ministries, Chief Internal Affairs Auditor
subject The officer in charge of the file, the Provincial Education Officer or his/her
designee,Representatives, Director General (National Agency on Tobacco and Alcohol
Authority)

06. In case of any act or function that violates the provisions of this circular, a complete
report/copy of the police complaint should be forwarded to the line ministry for legal action. The
final responsibility lies with the line ministry. It is the responsibility of the heads of institutions to
take prompt action to inform the relevant authorities so that disciplinary action cloud be taken
against those who violate the conditions mentioned in this circular, as per the procedures of the
Establishments Code.
07. Supervision, Regulation and Evaluation, Reporting, Training activities, Policy and
Planning
7.1 It is the responsibility of the provincial and regional authorities to implement school
programmes, evaluate, monitor, report and take necessary regulatory action in cases of violations
of circulars.
7.2 At the national level, the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education
will provide advice, guidance and supervision. The Drug Prevention Steering Committee shall
carry out the necessary regulation within the collective circle at the national level.
08. It is the responsibility and duty of all heads of institutions to act in accordance with the
instructions contained in this circular to free the education system from the menace of drugs,
which retains as a challenge for social progress.
Nalaka Kaluwewa
Secretary
Copy-
1. Secretary to the President, Presidential Secretariat - for information kindly
2. Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs - for information kindly
3. Secretary, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medical Services - for information kindly
4. All Provincial Chief Secretaries - for information kindly
5. All Provincial Governors and Secretaries - for information kindly
6. Auditor General, Auditor General's Department - for information kindly
7. Attorney General, Attorney General's Department - for information kindly
, Attorney General's Office
8. Chairman, National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol - for information kindly
9. Chairman, National Dangerous Drugs Control Board - for information kindly
10. Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education) Higher Education
Ministry of Education and Vocational Education - for information kindly
11. Director of Education (National Schools Branch) - for information kindly
12. Director of Education (School Affairs) - for information kindly