.04.2026
ED/01/11/07/07- 2026
Circular No.: 15 /2026
All Provincial Secretaries of Education
All Provincial Directors of Education
All Zonal Directors of Education
All Divisional Directors of Education
All the Heads of Venerable Theros of the Pirivena
All the Heads of Seelamatha Institutions
All the Principals
Vesak Week of the Sri Buddha Years 2570
Actions have been arranged to be celebrated the State Vesak Festival on the 27th of May 2026 at the ancient
temple in Midellawala, Thihagoda, Matara, Matara District, by the Department of Buddhasasana, Religious
and Cultural Affairs on marking the Vesak Day in the Sri Buddha Years 2570, which falls on the 30th of
May 2026 .
In line with the State Vesak Festival, arrangements should be made to implement the “Vesak Week”
programme in the relevant schools, National Colleges of Education, pirivenas and teacher training colleges
from 26.05.2026 to 02.06.2026.
The proposed model plan to be implemented during this Vesak week (taking into account the
recommendations given by the Ministry of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs and the
Department of Buddhist Affairs) is presented as follows whereas you are hereby kindly informed to take
necessary actions to implement these programmes appropriately in the relevant schools and educational
institutions.
Proposed Model Programme for Vesak Week.
Date Theme Suggested activities
Tuesday May 26, A Healthy Life
 Health promotion programmes for a healthy
2026
life according to the preaching’s of the Lord
Buddha.
Wednesday, May Value Promotional  Conducting awareness programmes and
27, 2026 Programmes advisory programmes for the school and
Dhamma school community on the qualitative
value of Buddhist customs.
 Conducting hospitality programmes in special
places such as elder homes, children's homes,
and hospitals.
 Organising Drug Prevention Programmes and
student counseling programmes.
Friday, May 29, Amisa puja programmes  Making and decorating Vesak lanterns and
2026 (Materialistic offerings to various designs. (Attention should be paid to
Lord Buddha)
the economical use of energy.)

Saturday, May Organization of  On the Vesak full moon poya day, Observing
30th 2026 (Vesak Virtuous Meditation the eight precepts at the nearest temple or at
Full Moon Poya Programmes under the home with parents and elders, or assisting those
Day) theme "The Virtue who have observed the eight precepts.
(Seela) means one’s  Decorating the house with Vesak lanterns and
physical and verbal performing Amisa Puja.
control "
Sunday, May Organization of the  Organizing, participating, watching and
31st 2026 Cultural programmes. entertaining the aesthetic programmes such as
Vesak devotional songs and Buddhist dramas
along with adults.
Monday, June Organization of
01st 2026 Spiritual Development  Practicing meditations such as Buddha-Anussati
Programmes. meditation, Dhamma-Anussati meditation,
Sangha-Anussati meditation, Seela-Anussati
meditation, and Maithri meditation
 Organizing programmes to make students
understand the value of mental health.
Tuesday, June Organization of  Implementing programmes to make aware the
2nd 2026 environmental students in relation to the value of the
conservation
environment and protecting the environment in
programmes and labor
order to create an environmentally friendly group
donation campaigns in
according to the teachings of the Lord Buddha.
line with the “Clean Sri
 Cleaning around the Schools, institutions,
Lanka” programme,
religious places of worship, house..etc.
 Tree planting programmes, establishing herbal
gardens and forest gardens.
In implementing programmes during the above Vesak week, appropriate times may be used institutionally.
For any reason, comments that are disrespectful to the Buddhist religion or any other religion should be
prevented and holding various shows and games and other such programmes, etc which may be promoted
the religious disharmony, should also be avoided. Accordingly, attention of principals and institutional
authorities should be focused on building religious harmony during this, among students and the
school/institutional communities.
Nalaka Kaluwewa
Secretary
Copies:
1. Secretary to the President, Presidential Secretariat
2. Secretary, Ministry of Buddha Sasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs, For information and necessary
- actions
3. All the Provincial Chief Secretaries
4. Director of Education (Pirivena) -To inform all Piriven Educational Institutions and for necessary actions.
5. Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education) - To inform the Heads of all NCE’S and for necessary actions.
6. Director of Education (National Schools) - To inform the principals of all national schools and for
- necessary actions